putting this up to the governor's that's
okay please yeah good okay who is that
speaking I can hear you fine thank you I
just want to thank you all for the
constant communication we're in the
fight with you but I believe that we
like that idea Brian that's done I like
it we had about 200 people there right
now we got things working very well
there but I want to encourage you when
those leave
[Music]
just got this not too long ago but we've
been vetting it all morning but one idea
to help the states and they struggling
revenue environments that is unlike the
recession when things went down slowly
which states had time to prepare at the
end of the year we're all facing drastic
revenue drops and I did a block grant to
the states to help fill revenue
shortfalls would be something I'd like
for you to consider and also we had a
idea on the unemployment insurance but
I'll get back to you all for
consideration as I just wanted to get so
k greater our and our congressional
delegation as well I know you have a
thank you very good thank you very much
and we will consider everything you've
said thank you very much okay who's next
governor support two areas one is
unflexible block grants those will be
important to us to allow us to continue
to serve our people and secondly we are
the Lord helps those that help
themselves I promise you we're doing
everything we can to get PPE work we're
requiring it we're getting donations but
we still are going to need a big slug
out of the strategic stockpile
and so Phil try try what you can do the
best you can to get what what you can
actually get and we're also having a lot
of things produced that frankly nobody
has ever seen anything like this before
but do the best you can and our block
grants we're going to consider that very
strongly
thank you faces we're right at the top
of the country and and of course the
healthcare infrastructure is designed to
meet the population and my fear based on
modeling that I've received today is
that as early as seven days we can start
to exceed our capacity to deliver
healthcare and even after surging we may
only get an additional three days and so
I'm asking for help in terms of surging
our medical capacity here in Louisiana
we've got some requests in for example
we have a VA hospital in New Orleans
where we've requested to be able to
search patients there we haven't
received the response yet we've got a
request in or a federal federal medical
station through HHS we're just asking
for help that is a that is the 10-meter
target for me right now
because we're gonna do everything we can
to mitigate and slow the spread but but
in the time that we have we've gotta
with that increase our surge capacity
that is my biggest concern and I just
wanted to express that to you and ask
for your own what is your second request
John bel what's your second request
please the second request
right okay
we're gonna look at that and I'm gonna
try and get you immediate approval on
the hospital I know about the hospital
request and so we're going to speak to
the VA we're gonna see if we get
immediate at least as a switch but we'll
get that approved for you one way or the
other all right okay thanks a lot
general
I might ask very briefly while we're
waiting for the next governor to come on
mic if you could say a few words and
also Deborah if you could say a few
words would be great and then we have
another governor teed up please great
again thank you thank all the governors
for your leadership your partnership in
confronting the coronavirus a few
updates and a few requests for each one
of you I want you all to make your
citizens aware the President signed the
family first coronavirus response act
last night coronavirus testing is free
paid sick leave family leave for
caregiver givers food assistance to the
needy get the word out to your citizens
and be very helpful on testing as we've
said many times and worked with many of
you through your state labs and in
certified labs and of course if the CDC
testing is now available in all 50
states
we want you to be aware that if you have
questions about the availability of
testing in your state you obviously can
talk to your state health department and
health care providers but I want every
governor to know that because of the
public-private partnership that the
president forged with our commercial
labs Roche thermo Fisher and as of last
night Abbott Laboratories are now coming
online literally by the hour and when
they are done we will have some 2,000
labs stood up around the country with
the high throughput testing your health
care providers will know where those
resources are your state Department will
know where their resources are and we
just encourage you to bring your team
together important to note that
that well now tens of thousands of more
tests are being performed literally
every day the the bill the President
signed last night also included a
provision that states and private labs
must report all coronavirus testing
results to the CDC emphasized that dear
State Health Department your health care
providers encourage you maybe to pull
them together today before end of
business we're rapidly expanding testing
around the country but but as dr. Burks
will reflect in a moment we want to make
sure that we're getting the results of
that testing so that we can be informed
about that and of course that the
American people can have full visibility
on that testing as well she'll also
explain we will see as testing is
ramping up today and tomorrow we will
see an increased number of cases we want
to give context to you and to your
citizens about that on supplies
President Trump has have been engaging
industry leaders in the supply chain
across the country and to make sure that
personal protective equipment and
medical supplies are broadly available
on the subject of masks I've talked to
many of the governor's about n95 masks
again in the bill the President signed
last night we have literally unlocked
tens of millions of n95 masks what the
president asked the Congress to do and
they did was we extended liability
protection to all industrial n95 masks
so those can now be readily sold to your
hospitals and health care providers we
urge you to communicate that to your
health care providers your hospitals
today to let them know that that supply
has dramatically increased and they can
place orders we also would reiterate if
you can reach out to your construction
companies they're in possession of lots
of n95 industrial masks and the
president is urging all those builders
and literally hundreds around the
country have already done this to donate
those masks
to their local hospitals and clinics on
the subject of ventilators we are
currently serving healthcare providers
around the country and suppliers and I'm
pleased to report to you that we have
already identified tens of thousands of
ventilators including ventilators that
can be converted to treat coronavirus
patients your action item on that and
your in your state should be you should
survey your outpatient surgical centers
and and your ORS to identify the type of
respirators that can be converted that
dr. Burke's has been working with with
suppliers there's a changed vent that
has to be attached we've identified that
those are available but literally tens
of thousands of ventilators are now
going to be available because of because
of the survey that's currently underway
the other point that we wanted to
emphasize is at the direction of CDC and
the president's coronavirus task force
we are encouraging hospitals and every
American to postpone elective surgery
please explain to your citizens that
this will have a direct impact on
hospital capacity by suspending elective
surgeries it will free up more space in
hospitals including respirators as dr.
Burke's explained to me that many people
that require a respirator is because of
a surgery gone wrong and so this frees
up more of our capacity across the board
I know it's not lost on any of the
governor's here mr. president that by
standing up FEMA we you now have
essentially created a structure that
every governor is very familiar with in
dealing with disasters and emergencies
we have activated all emergency support
functions and interagency functions here
Pete Gaynor is here for comments and
questions
we intend to run all of the federal
response in support to States through
here at the National Response
Coordination Center and through FEMA we
Center is fully operational governor's I
I want you to tell your teams that this
this NRCC will be connected to your
state's through your regional
administrators and your State Emergency
Operations centers this will be very
familiar to all of you any questions
that you have the only thing that I
would ask on the president's behalf if
there are issues that arise in your
state begin with your regional FEMA
administrator literally 20,000 people
work for FEMA there you all know what
incredible people they are and they're
ready to go to work to work your issues
so with that mr. president I might just
turn it over to dr. Burks with your
permission and she'll reflect on what we
know about the data and what we know
about the spread of the disease but
thank you that your bold leadership
thanks for what you're all are doing to
implement the president's coronavirus
guidelines it's an honor to be serving
with all of you Thank You max president
Deborah you should have received an
analysis of the across the country
Kovach cases analyzed and counties with
more than that over 50 percent of the
cases are in so it's the three primary
states of California Washington
California Washington in New York with
the addition counties of New Orleans and
Cook County we are very concerned to
remain concerned in urban areas where
mitigation and social distancing is
absolutely crucial the issue of
decreasing spread due to contaminated
counters and other things in restaurants
and bars as well as movie theaters is
absolutely critical so I know you're
concerned about your hospitals but
critically you need to make sure that
all elective medical and surgical
procedures and dental
teachers have been canceled that that
PPE is being utilized and transferred to
the parts of your state that needed the
most you look at all elective surgery
centers those are your outpatient
surgical centers and that staff to be
your surge capacity those ventilators
can be converted to be utilized the
anesthesia ventilators to be used as
ventilators I think as we all work
together to solve these solutions I
think unlocking the mass and the PPE
from construction was absolutely key as
well as as well as this ventilator
situation I think the federal government
has been very proactive and ensuring
that we've decreased bureaucracy of
barriers to unlock these innovations we
believe that innovations will continue
to come from the field and we appreciate
your frontline workers who have been
informing us about their changes it's
important that we're tracking the data
on a county-by-county as as granny early
as we can because we can look at weather
mitigation is working in those we'll get
feedback from your community this will
only be solved in every single person in
every single community takes
responsibility to ensure that following
the presidential guidelines that were
put out several days ago for the two
weeks of stopping this virus so we will
stay in close communication with all of
you through FEMA we're very excited
about the full activation of FEMA's
we'll be able to provide a dialogue both
up and a violent dialogue down so that
we can stay and close their
communication so we can ensure that we
have prioritized all stockpile elements
based on the needs and the case
structure that has been reported
reporting becomes critical if we can't
see it we don't know how to unlock the
stockpiles so this both test negative
and test positives are going to be
absolutely essential as well as hospital
admissions and CCU that so that we
understand exactly what is required from
the federal government Thank You mr.
president
thank you very much Mike ahead uh Thank
You mr. president just two brief points
on the subject of testing Admiral Gua is
with us the US Public Health Service has
built a model so many of the states have
already begun drive-through testing are
doing a yeoman's work in that space and
amber was here to articulate to you how
we can be supportive of that going
forward and where we're rolling that out
last point the president asked me to
emphasize we want to encourage every
governor on this call to convene your
leading health care providers today to
take inventory of your medical supply
needs and we urge you to remind them
that they need to look to their supply
chains first we'll prioritize
accordingly and that any states that are
in the middle of critical response know
that we will work with you to get you
what you need other states you need to
talk to your health care leaders
providers and make sure that they are
going to the supply chain and we
encourage you to to pull them together
today to to emphasize that point Thank
You mr. president and thank you very
much Mike and I want to get back to the
governor's I do want to say to me
something so big the FDA has approved a
compassionate use for a significant
number of patients we have a drug called
chloroquine derivation would be
hydroxychloroquine which I hear even
better about it's a common malaria drug
it's been available so therefore the
safety level we understand very well
it's been relatively safe and it showed
very encouraging early results really
encouraging if we if this works as well
as hopefully it might the FDA which
would have taken normally much longer to
do under our great Secretary has been
fed the head of the FDA has been dr. hon
dr. Stephen Hahn
he's been
fantastic you got it approved very
quickly I won't even tell you how
quickly but let's put it this way it's
approved and we're encouraging you to
take a look at it we have ordered a lot
of it and you can too it's by
prescription it's a very powerful drug
for malaria and also for various forms
of very serious arthritis but we think
it has a very serious very good impact
on what we're talking about with respect
to the virus so you'll take a look at
that and you can coordinate with us but
I think to me that's a game changer you
know about the vaccines are fine but
that will be a while before you can test
them because you have to leave quite a
bit of period we are making tremendous
progress on a vaccine but it still takes
a long while to test it we're also
studying this and other promising
therapies which is a therapy produced by
Gilead and that would be REMS it's
called REM Nessebar REM nessebar and it
shows great promise and reg in Arad was
a company which is also working very
hard on a drug and it's also they're
doing very well they are the ones that
came up with a very successful solution
to Ebola and they've been a fantastic
company so we have some great things but
the the ones that I mentioned are very
good but especially I think if you look
at the first mention could be a absolute
total game changer and with that I think
we'll go back to the this is my
prescription
but states can issue it and we have it
approved by the FDA and I think it's
going to be something that will be very
interesting to see we're going to know
very quickly but we've had some very
good tests and it's been successful so
let's take a look to me that's probably
the most important thing that anybody
can say if it works but we have it
approved for safety and I want to thank
the FDA for acting so
quickly who's incredible how quickly
this was something that would have taken
years and they got it done
almost immediately based on the past
history of the drug thank you very much
who is the next governor please hi Pete
thank you good thank you very much for
all your leadership and the vice
president appreciate it
absolutely the key things we're here for
people are around PPE and testing so
you're doing on the right track with
that we need to expand the access for
those I got three quick things to bring
your attention one is reagents to
process the test so once
for example somebody's been swab and we
have a test kit sending it to our lab
we're working to conserve the reagents
but I think some of my colleagues are
actually out so if you can put some
attention in the CDC to how we can make
sure we're getting reagents out to
everybody so we can actually process the
tests we're getting okay that would be a
key thing second thing child care
following your director for Monday you
know we've reduced those color groups to
ten people but we need to pop up an
alternative day care especially for our
first responders public health officials
anybody in global Public Safety so we
need a waiver from the fingerprint
requirement to be able to do that
quickly so I want to put that on your
radar screen to be able to see if you
can have somebody take a look at that
and then finally guidance from a special
in it from the Department of Education
for the free appropriate education
requirements please work with the chief
state school officers on a temporary
approach the recent value is put out
actually created more consternation more
concern I've got attorneys in some more
schools telling our teachers they can't
do anything because they're gonna get
sued because of the faint requirements
so if we can have some temporary
guidance that allows more flexibility
you know our tools again are out brain
without students in them we'd like to be
able to use them for other things and
that's good we'll get right back to you
on that Pete thank
very much great job you're doing thank
you okay who's next governor who's our
next governor
next
mr. president vice president governor
Baker from Massachusetts first of all I
want to thank you for signing the family
first act that will certainly provide
these resources to all of us and now
obviously echos made that more
flexibility is better than last look
right back to additional federal support
just beautifully we all work on the
issue which obviously you're gonna
particular some guidance on how the
implementation of the defense production
act is going to work with respect to
trying to man up and generate additional
capacity and then the second thing and
I'm gonna quite sure what to do with
this so I'm just going to throw it out
there for you we took very seriously the
push to do made me on one of these calls
that we should not just rely on the
stockpile and that we should go out and
find right then put in orders and create
and I can tell you that I'm three big
orders we lost to the Fed so my question
is could you give could you give some of
these guys some some guidance states are
doing what the feds want and trying to
create their own supply chain on this
people should be responsive tonight
because I got a feeling that if somebody
has a chance to sell to you or to me I'm
one of those all right Charlie thank you
very much well we do like you going out
seeing what you can get if you can get
it faster and price is always a
component of that also and maybe that's
why you lost to the feds I'll tell you
that's probably why but I'm gonna I'm
gonna ask Mike to discuss that because
we have some I think brand-new
information please like well Charlie we
will take that back and appreciate the
feedback
Secretary of HHS is here and we we want
to facilitate all the states and the
health care providers in your states to
be able to access
that supply chain as it becomes more
robust specifically on the defense
production act the the president the
president has has activated the defense
production act but he's not initiated
any other action underneath it right now
what I can tell you is as the president
has brought together leaders of business
and industry and supply chains I think
mr. president you put it well when you
talk about the spirit in American
business so Bob wanting to ramp up
voluntarily to meet the needs that our
health care providers have in this
country is truly inspiring and so the
president has not yet exercise his
authority under the defense production
act he said he will if he needs to but I
think I think the president's perception
the team's perception is now is American
industry is stepping forward very
aggressively and with the changes that
Congress just enacted and the President
signed we're going to continue to make
to make more and more PPE available and
I will say this too early and for
everybody the country has really stepped
up like I don't think we've seen it in
many many probably decades it's
incredible the way they've stepped up so
we hope we can get rid of this thing
quickly okay
next guy Thank You charlie next I would
please next governor chairman of the NGA
first of all I just want to thank you so
much for this a call today and I want to
thank you for the great communication
that you've had with all the governor's
over the past few weeks it's been
tremendous mr. president thank you for
signing the second stimulus last night
and for your ongoing efforts to mitigate
the economic impact that we're all
facing and thank you so much for joining
vice president pence the former governor
to leave this crisis he's been terrific
and working with all of us and reaching
out to us Thank You Leon yesterday
yesterday we had a meeting of all the
governors at nga prior to this ball and
you know we were getting a lot you're
getting a lot of input you're being
bombarded by 50 different people with
different questions we try to
consolidate it down
to kind of a group of concerns that that
all the governor's agreed on were sort
of our priorities and we talked with
Doug holster last night and gave those
to the White House and we want to just
raise those issues some of which you've
already covered already in the
discussion but I don't want to have to
walk walk through them just summarizes
there are 25 30 different things all the
governor's were talking about but these
were the ones that were the most there
was most consensus on one one it was you
know trying to dedicate at least 50% of
the supplemental funding to the states
including some direct funding and acting
quickly on waiver requests you've done a
great job with all of this all this
funding we are in a good position at the
state level to know the real needs and
get the money out faster to those some
of those small businesses that are in
fact that you're doing the stimulus for
those industries that are being hurt and
getting those checks out for the people
that need them but we have the money in
the States we can really utilize that I
think faster and push it out sort of
like we do on other things with block
grants um secondly you've talked about
this a lot but every governor obviously
is trying to work with you and and
bombarding about things about how do we
work together to increase access to PPEs
match test gets extraction kits and
accelerating the production and all of
this life-saving equipment ventilators
and we're working together but that's
obviously something all 50 governors or
at the top of their list third and this
came mostly from your appointees mr.
president the co-chairs of the Council
of Governors governor Hutchison and
governor EJ about the supporting title
32 authorization to give the governor's
more flexibility with their national
guards and it it helps us pay those
folks and get them benefits that we've
elevated we've activated 2200 Guard
members in our state and this is nothing
I think the governor said it consult
Anna you ever point these are on this
call I believe and providing some got
number for providing some guidance on
implementation of the defense production
act so we can kind of help work with
secretary a czar and give some thoughts
about how the states could be more
involved in
being that with some of the industries
in our state and lastly allowing us some
more flexibility for the completion of
both the Census and the Real ID because
we're trying to not force people into
like our MBAs we've waived licensing
requirements so we don't have people
trying to get renewals of Licensing and
yet Real ID requires us to get all these
people in there by October first because
it's kind of five gradual things that
all the governors one of Dressel which
you've talked about and I just want to
again thank you there's been tremendous
cooperation you have a terrific team
thank you that's been working and I want
to try to limit the people bothering you
directly and calling the vice
president's phone and blowing up cabinet
secretaries so I'll reiterate but I
talked with the White House about last
night and that is you mentioned it mr.
vice president going through the normal
FEMA process so it's great that you're
being so willing to help governor's
personally but I think things will
happen better if you go through feed
your regional FEMA coordinators and you
got more people addressing these issues
but that's a summary of it I just throw
it out there thank you well thank you
Larry you know I think I think the FEMA
is gonna go great we've had so much
we've done so much work with FEMA
unfortunately recently on a on a big
tornado in Tennessee you know that and
then last year on a big tornado in
Alabama and plenty of hurricanes and we
work also in California largely in
California the big forest fires and FEMA
there's a job like no like no other and
so I think there'll be a tremendous I
know there going to be a tremendous help
on the two points that are relevant I'd
like you to call Steve minuchin I'll
speak to him later
give him a little detail in those two
points please so that while we're doing
this with the center we're getting a lot
of cooperation from Democrats and
Republicans maybe you can make those two
points a little bit with Steve because
few people do agree with that okay thank
you thank you very much Larry thank you
okay next next governor please
mr. president if I might before the next
governor speaks I might with your
permission
Pete Gaynor could give us a couple
minutes governor Hogan
we appreciate your affirmation of the
president's decision to stand up FEMA's
National Coordination Response Center
and and to have all the state requests
and resources funneled through a very
customary system here at FEMA but mr.
president with your permission yes
please welcome National Response
Coordination Center and as the secretary
and the vice president self has
announced furiously FEMA is the leading
federal operations or as is leading
federal operators on behalf of the White
House corner task force what we seize
the whole of government response to the
pandemic like all of you we are prepared
to do this for the long duration for the
long haul the health and safety of our
employees and the American people is my
top priority as this as of this morning
the HHS crisis action task force and
other federal partners have fully
integrated into the operation space here
at FEMA's National Response Coordination
Center additionally all 10 FEMA regional
response coordination centers around the
country have been activated to support
ongoing response efforts and needs to
your respective states and regions
currently there are 50 states of the
District of Columbia five territories of
one tribe that have opted in and have
received the 501 B emergency declaration
of folk over 19 in support of this
FEMA's primary goal be to ensure you
have the resources that you need this is
what FEMA needs from everyone
the FEMA regional administrators will
continue to coordinate closely with you
and your teams determine the type and
level support you need as you continue
to respond to this dynamic threat like
all Mercy's response is most successful
when is locally executed state managed
and fairly supported and we cannot
stress this enough at the state level it
is informed that your Emergency
Management and public health teams are
linked together governor's if you have
unmet needs please ensure they have
commuted to your respective FEMA
Regional Administrator they have a
direct line here to the NRCC in
Washington DC I also need your help
emphasizing that at the local and county
level they should first be phone
requests up through the state and then
from the state to the FEMA regional
administrators again locally executed
state managed and fairly supported
recently today we issued guidance to all
states about what eligible emergency
protective measures are under the
Stafford Act so that was this afternoon
and governor's you should see that
shortly
we've also issued guidance on giving
more definition about the defense
production act I thank everyone for the
continued partnership in this effort and
as the president vice president said we
will get through this together as a team
thank you very much Pete and in addition
to FEMA we have the very very talented
man who I've dealt with a lot on
building different things throughout the
country the general that you I think for
the most part you know general Semin ID
and that's the Army Corps of Engineers
and very much involved in a couple of
locations I know specifically and he's
definitely very busy but he's a good
builder and that's what you need is a
good builder so thank you very much
general for being here okay next
governor please
good afternoon mr. president it's Gina
Raimondo from Rhode Island
hi Gina hi go ahead Gina yes yes I also
want to and my gratitude for your
transparency and especially the vice
president has been very gracious and
generous with his time and getting on
the phone with me a few times I very
much welcome the opportunity to work
with FEMA and I know we're in good hands
because they're coming to these big feet
dinner with my EMA director here so you
picked a fine man that's good that's
great I wanted to add a few other points
one is we are following your direction
and asking our hospitals to suspend
their elective surgeries for all the
reasons you've asked us to do that that
is however an incredibly important
source of revenue for these hospitals
and profits so as you are putting
together the next round of stimulus I
would ask you please to consider direct
direct and sizeable stimulus to our
hospitals but they're they're really
bearing the brunt of this yeah the
second thing is and I talked to
secretary minuchin yesterday and he
agreed with this I would ask you to
think about the short-term liquidity
needs of states so as our revenue is
falling off a cliff we we may need to
access the capital market for kind of
bridge financing to deal with short-term
liquidity and some sort of a federal
guarantee or federal as dividends do
that would be helpful yeah and I think
some of us may need that help in a
matter of weeks not months so I just
wanted to put that on your radar and
then I fully fully support what has been
asked for as it relates to block grants
because we all of us are on the ground
and need some flexibility to quickly
react to the needs of our of our small
businesses who you know these guys are
really struggling and we're all going to
have to do our best to help them so
thank you thank you and bye they think
of having it called incredibly helpful
and I appreciate it Thank You Gina very
much appreciate it very much and we'll
look into all of those points very
strongly thank you Gary please go ahead
my amen to all that's been said I
heretofore and we appreciate the work
that's being done on the suggestions of
the states as helpful as we you look at
best practices one of the things I like
to just suggest is we hear a lot of what
we can't do
there's a lot of gloom out there people
are uncertain they're afraid and we need
to bring some certainty if we can to
when this is gonna get at the end what's
that what's the how long have we got a
shred of water here the stock market
isn't kind of freefall and yet as we
look at least in my state of Utah I
think around the country the economy is
still doing pretty good its we need to
start talking about what we can do there
are things we can do and there's best
practices what we could do is
workarounds and probably want to get to
hear from our people in the hospitality
industry about what could they do with
their restaurants maybe meeting in small
groups and still be able to keep people
safe from the spread of this food rather
than total shutdown so I'd like to hear
more about what we can do for example I
know this
you agree with this mr. president golf
is a great recreation a great activity
while we have very few people and a
large open space our golf courses ought
to be a place of recreation we probably
have Clarke areas we brought their
liquor in with our families and still
have a normalcy for our lifestyle so
it's not just what we can do but what we
can do and what we can find from best
practices to see what we can do to adapt
innovate and be able to succeed during
this trouble time so I like to hear more
optimism they give us hope and
confidence in the future which I think
will translate to the public but I think
you're right a hundred percent and I
think we're going to have a we're gonna
be a rocket ship as soon as this thing
gets solved as soon as we beat the
invisible enemy it's an invisible enemy
and it's been vicious it's in over 140
countries if you can believe that 140
countries so it moves fast it's very
contagious but we've really stepped up
and a lot of good things are going to
happen and one of the reasons we're
doing the packages that you're hearing
about reading about and know about is
the fact that we think it's going to
come back really fast I think we're
poised to come back very very fast but
we have to get rid of this and we will
get rid of the virus and hopefully it'll
be sooner far sooner rather than later
thank you very much Gary appreciate it
thank you
next governor please relies on a lot of
medical care professionals coming across
that border and my colleagues away I
think see the wisdom and I'm grateful
that they that they've made them I
wanted to just quickly touch on the auto
industry obviously coming from Michigan
my telling
across the country also have serious
investments from industry and we're
concerned about liquidity up and down
the supply chain and all the great
people that have made the backbone of
our economy home for so long and I'm
just hopeful that as conversations
happen around industry and we will keep
this important sector front and center
because we are concerned about ensuring
that they have got some path out getting
back to prosperity
what well thank you very much you're
right a hundred percent we're watching
the auto industry very much we're going
to be helping them out at least a little
bit and they've sort of requested some
help and it wasn't their fault what
happened so we'll be taking care of the
auto industry and I appreciate it very
much your comments thank you alright
next governor place
mr. president mr. vice president this is
governor Jimmy Pritzker from Illinois I
wanted to first express my gratitude to
your staffs and to others working in the
administration who we've interacted what
they've really done yeoman work and
being responsive to us and Thank You mr.
vice president for returning calls to us
as we needed more help with answers to
questions about testing and actually
that's why I wanted to ask a question
today we understand areas drive through
testing that's being stood up across the
country we hope to see it in Illinois
crime through testing that the federal
government has arranged but we
understand that there are only about
5,000 tests that will be provided to us
in Illinois for these drive-through
tests testing centers and then there's
no more promise after that and so I
wanted to try to understand if we stand
them up what will happen that that's
perhaps you know a day or two days okay
these states have done a lot of that
themselves working in conjunction with
us a lot of the drive-through has been
done by States but and well maybe you
could answer that question please yes
sir Thank You mr. president mr. vice
president a couple of numbers for you
right now we're very effectively
transitioning to large-scale testing by
leveraging all components of our
American healthcare system including CDC
in the state public health labs all care
and hospitals and large commercial labs
let me give you a few numbers between
March 2nd and March 14th we made
available ten point four million tests
the United States population we
anticipated by the March 28th
that number will be twenty seven point
six million tests according to the FDA
so an incredible surge in terms of
supplies which many of you I worked with
probably about twenty individually
the FDA has made available a number of
options for supplies different swabs
different reagents if you don't have
culture medium you can use sterile
saline saltwater it works good everybody
has that that's on the FDA faq website
and in general the commercial market is
working extraordinarily well the CDC and
the public health laboratories to date
have conducted over forty five thousand
tests and the clinical laboratories the
large clinical laboratories have now
conducted over 63 thousand tests of
which twenty thousand were done just
yesterday so this shows the incredible
ramp we do not have all the tens of
thousands of hospitals which ambassador
birx is talking about I wanted to
highlight one before I get to your
question that the approval by Abbott the
approval by the FDA of the Abbott
testing system is very important to your
hospital systems because it spans a
little bit of a gap between what's done
interstate lab and what's done in the
large commercial laboratories there are
about 175 of these systems throughout
the country
150,000 tests were released yesterday
with about a million more coming over
over the next week these are in 175 of
your community hospitals and academic
medical centers VA medical centers and
they give you about 500 tests per day
within your hospital system now in terms
of the drive through this is the last
part we are standing on 47 sites in 12
states according to the state needs we
asked through the theme of regional
administrators for what you need and how
we can support you some states need very
little support some states d
significantly more so far only one week
after we started we will have several
today and likely more than a dozen
starting tomorrow and to be very clear
we gave the initial allocation based on
what your state told us but we want you
to work through your FEMA system we have
plenty of tests on the backside we have
plenty of supplies on the front side
work through your FEMA administrator to
give your requirements and we will bring
those back through the FEMA system to
meet them there's been great demand and
a great enthusiasm among the states for
these drive-through centers primarily
for health care workers and we want to
support you we can certainly provide
more than five thousand but we didn't
want to give away so much at the
beginning and so everyone got set up
thanks sir Thank You general take
advantage of the supplies that you're
talking about because the challenge out
here is that while you are providing
test kits we don't have that you pointed
out the reagent the swabs we're having
to go out on the market to find it but
it's being monopolized by this
drive-thru program that the federal
government is doing and and that we have
drive through the hospitals are stood up
on their own I might add the problem
again is if we don't have reagents or
the swabs then we can't do more tests
than we're doing today the 5,000 that
have been provided are being provided to
Illinois for those drive-throughs are
not enough going forward and we really
need you know again reagents and swabs
in order for us to expand more rapidly
our one last thing our hospitals are
doing just amazing work standing up
thank goodness have their own testing
capability and of course our state labs
too much but we really need to supply
that the federal government and its
access to we are competing with the
federal government for all right you
know general that shouldn't be a problem
would you please answer that because
everything should be in very good shape
it is absolutely not true that the
drives through centers are monopolizing
the market we use the swabs and the swab
kits not
testing kids we get them to the
commercial market we use a very small
percentage of them when I was asked
about shortages yesterday I went right
to the commercial market got 200,000 and
shipped them to the states that said
they couldn't find them so please look
on the commercial market because they
are there we will help you find them or
we will help you help you to access them
and again if you send your requirements
up and with a FEMA system we will work
with your states to acquire them or
assist you in any way if we're fully
integrated into FEMA now it's been great
and only twelve hours we've got us all
side side by side so we want to help you
we appreciate the enthusiasm and there
will be more than 5,000 available to you
either that the commercial market or we
will assist in fact last night we bought
250,000 swabs and they got distributed
all over - all over the country to the
various states and the states that
needed them the most so JB any problem
call me up but there should be no
problem with that at all thanks a lot
Jimmy thank you thanks Jimmy next
governor please
this is Kristi Noem from South Dakota
Thank You mr. president mr. vice
president for all your hard work we sure
appreciate it I want to tell you a
little bit of my story and I need to
understand how your triaging supplies we
for two weeks were requesting reagents
for our Public Health lab from CDC who
pushed us to private suppliers who kept
canceling orders on us and we kept
making requests placing orders the
morning we would expect the supply all
of a sudden we did a cancellation notice
and we're working through all the set up
channels or the federal government to
get it resolved until we ran out and
we're unable to cross them any tests in
the state of South Dakota because I have
the only lab that is operating today I
have no commercial outside whatsoever
this morning and started testing again
getting there and we were only
processing and able to start processing
this morning's at high-risk samples as
well found out that one of my hospital
systems received reagents when they
haven't even been an FDA approved lab
and aren't even ready to start
processing yet so they've received what
I was trying to get for two weeks when
they're not even an approved lab not
even fed up and running and I'm trying
to figure out how we're drying supplies
that we need especially when I'm the
only lab that operates in the state and
we were going through the channels there
correctly and using and searching and
asking I'm probably the one that my
other colleagues were referring to that
with asking for reagents from all of
them four days all right we heard we got
very good that will never happen to you
and it will never happen to your state
okay governor will this is secretary
this the secretaries are we
we want to make sure you get what you
need there there are many different
reagents that can be used so after this
call we'll get on with you to help make
sure you're getting what you need at
hospital I don't know how they got their
supplies they probably bought them on
the open market there's a trillion
dollars of open market supply that's
where most entities are buying that for
hospitals buy their supplies from and
states can buy from but I'd encourage
you first please let your let that need
you know to your FEMA regional director
so that it goes into your normal process
there but given this special issue here
that is a CDC test we're going to get on
meter team right away after this all and
we'll get that issue solved for you
there is tremendous supply Deb please
good is thermo Fisher got approved
there's their Wishard labs and major
hospitals in South Dakota and I told
them to prioritize on states that had
not received Roche commercial assays and
did not have LabCorp requests or one of
the others so your hospital I'm not sure
what you mean they're not certified
amethyst there was this thermo Fisher
platform they are certified to run this
assay under full FDA so there will be a
lot of commercial hospitals in your
state that will have access to these
commercial laboratories outside of the
CDC test I understand about your state
local labs and them using in your public
health labs using the CDC assay but
we're trying to strengthen your
individual hospitals capacity where
normal assays are performed for your
public Thank You Christy thank you very
much
next governor please Thank You Chrissy
thanks governor please go ahead go ahead
I think we back
[Music]
thank you Mike will take care of that
immediately very quickly all right thank
you
next please
yes I think that's good I think it's a
good idea Pete will do it through FEMA
you'll coordinate that so Peters here
will do it through FEMA that's the way
we want to do it okay
what's next
[Music]
thank you very much we'll get it done
thank you very much all right we have
four more governors thanks let's go
who's next
hi Oregon is a soul cities cause the
ability to connect with your
administration and our needs are
reflected in the governor thank you very
much thank you very much thank you okay
I unfortunately had to shut down the
strip in Las Vegas and as a result of
that and while they're getting some
compensation the filing for unemployment
anything to help we could get from your
in to help with the facilitation of
getting our economy back going right
would go a long long way this is our
number one industry in demand yeah I
know but got other parts of the country
with the theme parts of what none of
these folks are lower-wage sometimes it
would definitely be helpful if we could
include them in any recovery package
that is brought forward I think it's a
great idea thank you very much I think I
think it's something we'll be thinking
about it Thank You governor
next please we talked about the
ventilator crisis as we get further down
the road I know governor Inslee is there
at that point now whether and I've heard
rumors that the car industry might start
manufacturing him and then we've talked
about using laser technology laser
training to make the parts if FDA would
give us the standards and if Congress
and the administrator and the
administrator pass a patent protection
so that we could get into the supply
chain an adequate supply of ventilators
and the filters to where that was one
thing we had to worry about in our
supply chain going forward that would be
very helpful okay
and we can do that too that's great we
can do that easily thank you thank you
bred well ladies and gentlemen thank you
very much it's been an honor to be with
you we'll do this probably often until
this get solved feel free to call me the
Vice President anybody at the table
anybody in the room except for the media
don't call the media and we will see you
at the next one thank you all very much
thank you
thank you everybody